Started with a description of studies in molecular mechanism section (#347)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/02.introduction.md

Besides major pulmonary damage, SARS-CoV-2 infection can damage many other organ systems including the heart [@doi:10.1001/jamacardio.2020.0950], kidney [@doi:10.1038/s41585-020-0319-7; @doi:10.1186/s13054-020-02872-z], liver [@doi:10/ggpx6s], and gastrointestinal tract [@doi:10.1053/j.gastro.2020.02.055; @doi:10.1111/1751-2980.12851].
It can even cause neurological complications [@doi:10.1016/j.bbi.2020.03.031]. 
As it becomes clearer that SARS-CoV-2 infection can damage multiple organs, the scientific community is pursuing multiple avenues of investigation in order to build a consensus about how the virus affects the human body.
To quickly associate the clinical outcomes with SARS-CoV-2 infection, researchers are taking advantage of “omics” technologies to profile the expression of coronavirus entry factors across the tissues/cells and also to measure the host transcriptional response after virus infection. 
Although we make an effort to evaluate all relevant studies, we realize that this area is rapidly evolving.

> Two studies profiled expression response after SARS-CoV-2 infection in multiple human cell lines (Figure X1) [@doi:10.1016/j.cell.2020.04.026; @doi:10.1101/2020.05.05.079194]. 

Reviewer: I can help get the figure to work in Manubot.  Is this a figure you made?  Do you have the source files that we can also add to the repository?  That lets other contributors tweak it later if needed.

I recommend making the filename a description of the figure instead of a number because the numbering can change.  Perhaps `cell-lines-moi.jpg` or something like that.  Then, in the text where you want to refer to the figure use
```suggestion
Two studies profiled expression response after SARS-CoV-2 infection in multiple human cell lines (Figure {@fig:cell-lines-moi}) [@doi:10.1016/j.cell.2020.04.026; @doi:10.1101/2020.05.05.079194]. 
```

Where you want the figure to appear, add the text (including the blank line before and after):
```

![Caption for the figure here.](images/cell-lines-moi.jpg){#fig:cell-lines-moi}

```

Author: Thanks. Yes, I analysed the data and made the figure. Where should I put the source file(s)? It was edit in Affinity.

Reviewer: Thanks @bansalvi.  Putting the source files where you did in the images directory is a good choice.

The figure shows up as intended in the manuscript now:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3532898/85223973-908a5680-b38c-11ea-8c4f-fb8ac03cfc2e.png)

You'll have to view the PDF version from AppVeyor to see it.  It's not in the HTML version because the images subdirectory is not copied in these preview builds.

Author: @agitter This is great. Thanks. Can I also refer to part of the figures in the text? For example Figure 2A.

Reviewer: Yes, to refer to Figure2A in the text, you can write:
```
Figure {@fig:cell-lines-moi}A
```

The panel letters are not automated, so the command will only replace the figure number.

To quickly associate the clinical outcomes with SARS-CoV-2 infection, researchers are taking advantage of “omics” technologies to profile the expression of coronavirus entry factors across the tissues/cells and also to measure the host transcriptional response after virus infection. 
Below we summarize the existing transcriptome studies published after a peer-reviewed process as of May 2020 [Note to self (Vikas): change the date after some pre-prints are published]. 
Although we tried to cover all appropriate studies, we realize we may have missed some.

Two studies profiled expression response after SARS-CoV-2 infection in multiple human cell lines (Figure X1) [@pmid:32416070; @doi:10.1101/2020.05.05.079194]. 
First study by Blanco-Melo et al performed in-depth analysis of the transcriptional response to SARS-CoV-2 compared with other respiratory viruses, including MERS-CoV, SARS-CoV-1, human parainfluenza virus 3 (HPIV3), respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), and influenza A virus (IAV). 

> In addition to human cell lines A549 (adenocarcinomic human alveolar basal epithelial cells), Calu-3 (human airway epithelial cells derived from human bronchial submucosal glands) and MRC-5 (human fetal lung fibroblast cells), authors measured the host transcriptional response to SARS-CoV-2 in primary normal human bronchial epithelial cells (HBEC or NHBE cells), in nasal washes of ferrets as an animal model and in lung samples of two COVID-19 patients. 

Author: Agree. This has lot of info. Should we remove the full form of each cell line? Either mentioning it in footnotes or the figure I will insert this week.

> Differential expression analysis between infected and mock cell conditions revealed that the transcriptional response of the cells with efficient SARS-CoV-2 replication is significantly different from the host response of all other viruses tested. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Differential expression analysis between infected and mock (control) cell conditions revealed that the transcriptional response of the cells with efficient SARS-CoV-2 replication is significantly different from the host response of all other viruses tested. 
```
I think this needs a little clarification just because it's not clear here that they compared infection vs mock and then also across viruses. They also did a bunch of other analyses, such as comparing low and high MOI. Is there a way to break these comparisons into pieces to make the experiment(s) more clear?

Author: Will work on this. DE is always b/w infected and respective mock condition. Regarding MOI, see below.

> A unique proinflammatory cytokine signature is present in both high and low multiplicity of infections (MOI). 

Reviewer 2: Perhaps add an explanation of why MOI is interesting. I don't think we've introduced that concept in the text yet. I read the discussion of this paper, and it seems very interesting!

Author: Agree, I want to include this after second paper is introduced because they are using different MOI.

> However, in contrast to high-MOI, low-MOI SARS-CoV-2-infected cells showed no significant IFN-I or IFN-III expression suggesting that IFN induction is MOI dependent. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, in contrast to high-MOI, low-MOI SARS-CoV-2-infected cells showed no significant IFN-I or IFN-III expression, suggesting that IFN induction is MOI dependent. 
```

> Similarly, in NHBE cells, ferrets as well as COVID-19 patients, they found significant enrichment of chemokine signaling but no significant induction of IFN-I or IFN-III. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similarly, in cells from the NHBE line, ferrets, and COVID-19 patients, they found significant enrichment of chemokine signaling but no significant induction of IFN-I or IFN-III. 
```
What does this suggest? How does it influence our understanding of COVID-19?

Author: Will discuss this. Seems like SARS-COV-2 has a antagonist to reduce the induction of IFNs. Also supported by https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.05.11.088179v1

DE results revealed that the transcriptional response of the cells with efficient SARS-CoV-2 replication is significantly different from the host response of all other viruses tested. 
A unique proinflammatory cytokine signature is present in both high and low multiplicity of infections (MOI). 
However, in contrast to high-MOI, low-MOI SARS-CoV-2-infected A549-ACE2 cells showed no significant IFN-I or IFN-III expression, suggesting that IFN induction is MOI dependent. 
Similarly, in cells from the NHBE line, ferrets, and COVID-19 patients, they found significant enrichment of chemokine signaling but no significant induction of IFN-I or IFN-III. 
Together, these results suggest that in contrast to common respiratory viruses, SARS-CoV-2 induces limited antiviral state with low IFN-I or IFN-III expression and a moderate IFN-stimulated genes (ISG) response. 
However, the low IFN induction in ACE2-expressing A549 cells could be overcome by using a 10-fold increase in SARS-CoV-2 (MOI, 2), suggesting a SARS-CoV-2 antagonist that is rendered ineffective under high-MOI conditions [@doi:10.1016/j.cell.2020.04.026]. 

> This speculation was further supported by a recent study [@doi:10.1101/2020.05.11.088179], showing that the SARS-CoV-2 ORF3b gene, whose length is considerably smaller as compared to the SARS-CoV-1 ORF3b gene, suppress IFNB1 promoter activity (IFN-I induction) more efficiently than SARS-CoV-1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This hypothesis was further supported by a recent study [@doi:10.1101/2020.05.11.088179] that showed that the SARS-CoV-2 _ORF3b_ gene suppresses IFNB1 promoter activity (IFN-I induction) more efficiently than the SARS-CoV-1 _ORF3b_ gene, which is considerably shorter.
```

Author: @rando2 Thanks. I will finish this part during next weekend. "which is considerably shorter" 
should be 
"which is considerably longer".

> Second study [@doi:10.1101/2020.05.05.079194] by Wyler et al examined three human cell lines: H1299 (human non-small cell lung carcinoma cell line), Calu-3 and Caco-2 (human epithelial colorectal adenocarcinoma cell line). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A second study by Wyler et al. [@doi:10.1101/2020.05.05.079194] examined three human cell lines: H1299 (human non-small cell lung carcinoma cell line), Calu-3, and Caco-2 (human epithelial colorectal adenocarcinoma cell line). 
```

They performed a comprehensive analysis of the transcriptional response to SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV-1 at different hpi (4-36 hours) with an MOI of 0.3. 

> Using poly(A) bulk RNA-seq, authors found negligible susceptibility of H1299 cells (< 0.08 viral read percentage of total reads) in contrast to Caco-2 and Calu-3 cells (>10% of viral reads). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using poly(A) bulk RNA-seq, the authors found negligible susceptibility of H1299 cells (< 0.08 viral read percentage of total reads) in contrast to Caco-2 and Calu-3 cells (>10% of viral reads). 
```
